[MUSIC]
We're going to talk now
a little bit about the network,
about the Internet and
how to interact with it through a code.
So eventually that's we want to do.
In our Internet of things,
our IRT devices, we want to be able to
write codes that talk on the network.
So we'll talk a little bit about that,
and start introducing the Internet and
its protocols and how it works.
So a programmatic networking, so by this
I mean using the network through code,
through a program.
Now accessing a network
on a Raspberry Pi or
really any device as a user
is pretty straight forward.
We've seen this.
You just go to your machine, you connect
to the network, open a browser for
instance, open a email application.
You open some appropriate network
application and you work with it and
you run it and great,
a user can interact on the network.
But we want, when we're making
these IOT devices, we want.
Not so much manual direct,
manual interaction.
We want some program that's
running on our IoT device
to be able to actually
interact on the network.
So we want that program, it should
be able to talk to other servers,
other machines on the network, and
get data from those machines,
request services from those machines.
So the isn't the only device
that's doing the work.
So it can offload work to a foreign
machine, or remote machine, and
get results back.
And so from the user's point of view, the
whole system is much more complicated and
interesting.
So you can have interaction between
the network and some network servers and
the world, with the Raspberry Pi
basically in between.
Or the Raspberry Pi, or
whatever your IOT device is, it's in
between, getting data from the world.
Interpreting that, sending it to
the network, getting some service,
getting results back to the Raspberry Pi,
whatever your device is, and
then sending actuations out to the world.
Put us up on the screen,
making something happen.
So that's what we want, that's what
Internet things is really supposed to do.
It's supposed to take this
natural environment and
interface it with the network some how.
So for instance, you have a little
cloud over there that's the Internet.
Has the Internet, and some servers on
the Internet that you might be interacting
with, maybe providing some
kind of service that you want.
And then there's a Raspberry Pi,
which is remote somewhere local,
remote from the servers.
And it has sensors and actuators, because
I was implementing this embedded device.
It's IOT device.
It has actuators that do things
out in the real world and
sensors that read data
from the real world.
So, sensors meaning buttons and things
like this, light sensors, sound sensors,
microphones, whatever you want.
And then has actuators, speakers,
screen, that type of thing.
And so the Raspberry Pi is directly
interfacing with the real world through
these sensors and actuators.
And it's trading data with some
servers based in the internet,
some servers connected by the internet.
So you get this, the whole system that the
person is interacting with is much bigger.
It's not just the Raspberry Pi.
Is this whole network infrastructure that
include some service on the network.
So, first we talk a little
bit about the Internet.
We need to explain what the Internet
looks like in order to have you
writing code that actually
accesses the internet.
So, the internet.
The structure of the internet
is relatively ad hoc.
Not completely but remember that's
it's not completely controlled.
At any time, I can open up a laptop and
have it connect onto the network and
now it is a node on the internet.
And then I can close that laptop and
it is no longer node on the internet, or
I can say, look I'm going to buy
a router and turn on my router and
connect ten machines to
the Internet through my router.
So the structure of the Internet
is not a fixed thing,
it's not centrally controlled.
It's controlled locally by
all sorts of random people.
Anybody who wants to start a connection,
has a little money,
can spring up their own little subnetwork.
So you've got this set of
local area networks, LANs,
we're calling them, L-A-Ns,
local area networks.
And those things are out of control.
You don't know what those things
look like, what protocols they use.
That's up to whatever the locality is.
I mean there are certain standards,
but people don't have to adhere
to those standards necessarily.
So everybody has their own local area
networks, and these are all somehow
tied together into one massive internet,
and they all have to talk together.
So these local area networks
are connected by, well,
I'm drawing a sort of hierarchy
of routers in this picture.
Doesn't have to be routers, it can be
switches and bridges and things like this.
But networking infrastructure,
a hierarchy of this, a massive hierarchy,
that all communicate together
to form the internet.
Now this is a vast simplification.
But the general idea is at the bottom,
the local area network level,
that's out of control.
At the top level there's gotta
be some structure imposed so
that everybody can talk together.
So, the structure in post, the way
everybody, all these random local area
networks talk together is through
the use of these internet protocols.
So, you need to send data from one
local area network to another,
and you don't have control over
the individual networks, but
they still need to communicate somehow.
So how do you do this?
Generally you use a protocol,
internet protocols.
Now, a protocol is basically a set of
rules that define a lot of things.
They define the communication.
So, they define how data should be
transferred between two different nodes.
They define what data is
contained in each packet.
They define what's in the header,
they define a lot.
But the protocol defines
how you should communicate.
Just to give you a little example,
you ever see movies where
people talk on a CB radio?
And they say either talk, and every
time their done talking they say over.
And then the next person's allowed
to talk, and then they talk and
they say over.
That's protocol, and protocol is you
say whatever you want to say and
then you say over to let
the other person know you are done
with whatever you're saying,
and they can talk.
And the reason why you have that protocol
is to share the communication lines,
because basically with a radio like
that you have one set of lines,
one communication channel.
So, only one person can
be talking at a time.
So, you need some signal to let
the other person know, okay I am done,
I am relinquishing control of this bus so
that you can talk now.
So, that's why you say, over.
And then when you're done with all your
communication you say over and out,
meaning you want to end
communication completely.
And that's called a protocol.
It defines basically how you're
supposed to communicate.
It gives you some rules.
Now it doesn't define everything.
It doesn't define what you can say.
You can put any data inside the payload.
The words you say,
you can say whatever you want as
long as at the end you say over.
Or at the end of the whole
communication you say over and out.
So that's a protocol.
And the network's the same thing.
Usually the exterior information isn't
at the beginning, isn't at the end,
but the beginning.
So with this example that I'm
giving here with over and
out, you say that after you're
done with your payload.
You say your payload.
Then you say over.
So that's a footer.
They call that a footer
because it's at the end.
Usually in the Internet most of these
network protocols you have headers, so
you put that network information
at the beginning of the pack and
you say, things like what's
the destination address?
You put that at the beginning.
What's the size of all the data?
Things like this, you put this
information at the beginning and
then you put your payload out there.
But it's the same idea.
So, there I said are these internet
protocols and the idea is in order for
two machines on two random local area
networks to communicate they have to
adhere to these internet protocols.
So, when they want to talk,
when one machine from one local area
network wants to talk to another machine
from another local area network
it has to adhere to the protocol.
It has to encapsulate data the way
that the Internet protocol dictates.
And as long as it does that,
the machine at the receiving end
will understand that data and
be able to pull out the information
that it needs, and they can communicate.
And these protocols don't
interfere with the LAN protocol.
So these local area networks, they can
have whatever protocols they want.
So that we would call
the payload of the message.
They can have whatever
information in them they want,
as long as you put the special header for
the Internet protocol
on the outside of all that you
can send whatever data you want.
So the local area networks can have
whatever random protocols they want to
have as long as you adhere to
these Internet protocols and
put their headers on the front and
footers if you have to on the back.
Then two machines can communicate.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]